The last thing that we haven't yet done with our API End Point is the alteration part.
That means that we shouldn't allow everyone to modify other people's comments and delete them so everyone
is allowed to add new comments to read them.
But deleting and updating is only reserved to the outer.
Of particular comment and for this will remind ourselves a little bit about that model policies how
they work how to define them.
So let's go and remind ourselves and create a new policy for comments so let's locate the folder where
we have the policies defined and open that blog post.
Policy now this is the class that we have generated using the Peach Pit artisan make policy comment
for the particular model which is blog post.
Now let's remind ourselves how this works.
So you are getting instances of two models.
So first is the user and then you had the model that you check rights against.
So your job is to verify whether this user can do something with this blog post and that action name
is basically telling you what is this specific ability so in this case we can either allow or deny viewing
something then creating something and updating something so that simple we in this case we are just
checking if the user I.D. is matching the blog post user I.D..
Now you have to register those policies and you do that inside that our service provider.
That's the file located inside the provider's folder.
So whenever you create a new policy you have to register it like that by specifying it under the policy's
property.
The key is the model name and the value is the policy class.
Now how did we verify user abilities.
We used the simple helper method in controller called this out rise and we provided the model instance.
So let's take a look at how our rice works so it accepts a parameter ability and some additional arguments.
So since we only provided the model we haven't provided any additional arguments so we haven't explicitly
specified that we want the editing ability or updating ability.
Lovell was able to out to magically figure out what is your intention.
So if you will take a look at the sparse ability and arguments method then you can see that it does
some checks and well actually if you only provide model it will get to this point where a lot of it
is just checking from the stock Trace.
It's like a stock of all the methods functions that were called in peach pit so it's kind of a meta
programming but anyway it is figuring out the name of the controller method.
As you can see here this is exactly what this is doing.
So now that it knows that you only provided a model it figures out what is the controller action name.
So after it figures out the controller action name it is trying to match the action name as you see
in this let's say table to the ability method like view create.
So Stories create edit is update and if you will take a look at the example block policy policy class
you can see that we had those methods defined here.
So this is how it works are sure to reminder after this short reminder I think you should be able to
create this comment policy yourself and consider it an exercise.
But if you are not feeling adventurous then just follow along.
So this is how you do it.
So we generate our new policy class speech by artisan make policy.
You provide a name so that's comment policy.
That's the name of the class and there is additional parameter model which we can use to quickly generate
a policy class for a specific model.
So let's close the terminal.
And this is our new comment policy so we can very quickly implement that so everyone should be allowed
to view a comment.
Everyone should be allowed to create one.
Then with updating.
Well only the users that have actually created it should be able to modify it so we check whether that
comment user I.D. is matching the user the User model of the currently authenticated user I.D..
Now we can use the same for deleting
and restoring Well we don't use self deletes on comments so let's just return false
and that's it.
You have that policy implemented now.
That's not everything.
Remember that you have to register it at least in not of five point seven.
So there is up comment and then up policy's comment policy.
Now this is registered and now everything you have to do is called this out to Rice on every method
inside your new API endpoint No there is a reason why I said you have to register policies manually
at least in light of all five point seven and versions before that because since a lot of our five point
eight you don't have to do that under some conditions.
So actually this course was recorded when a lot of the five point seven was the fresh larval version
but since then there is five point eight version which has some new features and this is actually documented
in larval docs.
So this is the standard way of registering policies but there is also an option to have the policy out
discovery so how it works is if you follow a lot of old conventions which we do so you will create your
models and that's a good example if you will create a user model and then inside the policies folder
you will create a class called exactly user policy then lot other will out to discover this policy so
you won't have to register it so you won't need this entries for every new policy that you create.
So you can read closely what are the rules and how to use our policy out of discovery.
But well since I've started this course on a lot of five point seven I'm not sure which versions you
guys might be using.
So just so you know up until five point eight you had to define policies explicitly manually like I
have I have shown you just a second ago but since five point eight if you follow this conventions you
don't have to do that.
Okay so now let's go to our method and call this out to Rice on the comment.
So notice that this is an update action so there already is a comment inside the database and also let's
call it inside that destroy method because those are the two that we have specific policies for.
But if you want if you really want you can also add this to the show method or to the store method
but obviously that's up to you.
So of course in case of story you want to provide the comment instance because there isn't yet any you
will provide the class name so we will do something like this.
Comment
class.
So this will give a fully qualified class name and then lover will also guess what are you trying to
do.
OK.
So save the changes and now all our end points are protected.
So we should always verify that.
So let's take a look.
We are in post man and that's the outer recession key of the John Doe user I guess.
But let's also verify that because you want to check with different API tokens so to be sure just copied
a token from John Doe.
You can just do it from the database and create a new comment.
So also mind the body you have to provide some body.
Now we have a response so the idea was three hundred eight.
And now let's try deleting this
so first we might try without authentication.
So we got a proper response 401.
And authenticated.
And now let's try.
We have tokens.
So will we use a token from different user.
Because he shouldn't be able to delete this comment by John Doe.
So let's try the user number two.
The name isn't important because it is outage generated.
So let's baste the token of user with the 82 and tried to delete
that you could you could see that this was actually deleted and sorry for that.
This was my stupid mistake.
And of course this shouldn't be an assignment.
This should be a comparison.
So you should always take a look at that.
And that's why in the next section we'll be writing tests for that.
By the way so let's make sure everything is correct.
OK.
So let's quickly show it again.
So we will create a new comment.
So this time I happened to have taken off John Doe.
So always verify that now let's copy the idea.
To this end point and here there is a different token.
So why I know because I just remember I've changed it.
But you can see that that's a different token of a different user.
So John Doe added the comment and someone else is trying to delete it.
And now you can see that this action is about arised.
So this is also a field that we can modify using our exception handler not to get exceptions like this.
So as you can see in our handler class we have handled cases like this before.
So if the client expects to get Jason back and there was an exception of specific kind we responded
with a specific response in this case we just redirected to the fallback route.
But in this case this is a different scenario so if you will again take a look at the parent render
you can see that a lot of it is handling a couple of specific cases and this includes authentication
exception validation exception.
But when you are about to rise.
This is a different kind of exception so some different class is being returned.
Now before we figure out what is this class let's also take a look at this.
I'm authenticated.
So if the request expects Jay some lot of it is simply returning.
Jason the response at this point we've asked that the scope and the exception message so it doesn't
contain all this stacked raised that you have inside the postmark before us as you have seen all the
details about your code.
You don't want that.
So what we can do is we can figure out what is the actual class name of this exception.
So you can do that using a get class exception because you might have wondered how do they figure out
what should be the exception.
Name here to catch and to return specific response.
Well this is how you can do that.
So you just do dump and die and you get the class.
So let's go to post mom.
Send it again and see the preview.
So in this case that is actually alteration exception from this namespace.
So why wouldn't we copied out and just move it at the top of our handler other use statement.
Now we can copy just that alteration exception class name so this part this is probably not feasible
it's all red.
But anyway you will see that in a second.
So if a request expects J some.
That's the first condition.
And second is whether expect exception is instance of outer reception exception.
Well we simply return response.
Jason
and then we can add a message which could be exception get message.
So this will be the default exception message and the status code to be 400 free.
So that's the area or stop this code whenever user is unable to rise to do something.
And this is a standard way to return this code in HDP.
So whenever you have a dilemma of what the HBP status code for this kind of errors out or reception
errors should be it is 400 free now say the changes and let's go back to postman to see if this has
worked.
So let's send this request and this is what we get.
This action is an outer.
So we can of course modify this message but we just use the defaults default message from lot of
now that you know how to outcries actions authenticate actions in your API and implement basically fully
functional end point which covers.
Well I would say most of the needs that you will have.
Let's get to the next section when we'll see how to test our API is.